---
layout: post
title: 
subtitle: 
gh-repo: davidmolina2810/programming-prose
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: 
comments: true
readtime: true
thumbnail-img: https://coursereport-s3-production.global.ssl.fastly.net/uploads/school/logo/8/original/flatironschool.png
cover-img: https://jobboardhq.blob.core.windows.net/assets/prod/cnne/tm2l/employerLogo.png?v=191120032141
---

### Flatiron School Immersive Software Engineering 
Everyone wants to earn a great salary. Everyone wants a prestigious job. Everyone wants to be apart of a buzzing, collaborative community. If this sounds like you, consider joing a coding bootcamp. Specifically, I suggest looking into joining Flatiron School. On October 5th, 2020, I began Flatiron School's 15-week Immersive Software Engineering course. In the midst of a global pandemic, Flatiron has been affected just as other schools and companies have, and, consequently, my cohort has been fully online. Despite this, bootcamp has been rigorous, challenging, and very effective in helping the other students and I gain the skills necessary to enter the workforce as developers. From the curriculum to the Flatiron community, this program has changed my life in the best ways. 

### Labs and Lectures
Flatiron uses two main mediums of teaching when it comes to actually learning to code&mdash;labs and lectures. Part of your choice to join a coding bootcamp is the sacrifice you must make in regards to time commitment. Be prepared to spend hours on hours of coding. Conscious, repetitive practice is the only way you can began to learn a new skill, let alone master that skill, and Flatiron's curriculum is definitely built around this principle. Everyday new labs are deployed. Labs consist of readme's, code-alongs, and fully independent labs. Readme's are exactly what they sound like, pages of information you must read! This is where you'll be introduced to new concepts and new techniques. If you can absorb information simply from reading, great. If not, taking notes and maybe even making flashcards will be your salvation as you navigate the massive amounts of information that will be thrown at you over the course of the program. The readme's are clear and concise, though&mdash;filled with helpful metaphors to help you understand some of the more difficult programming topics like object-orientation and asynchronous programming.

### Code Challenge


### Projects


### Community


### Conclusion