---
layout: post
title: A Super Brief Intro to Python
subtitle: From Rubyist to Pythonista
gh-repo: davidmolina2810/programming-prose
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: 
comments: true
readtime: true
thumbnail-img: https://www.thoughtco.com/thmb/W8mZRP83ZBl7QeKAJuMajXZjux0=/768x0/filters:no_upscale():max_bytes(150000):strip_icc()/2000px-Python.svg-56a7b0bc5f9b58b7d0ecea1f.jpg
cover-img: https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcRL-kD_yWTV4ew93dpOKBkcjtyXBTx1NmxzBQ&usqp=CAU
---

### What is Python? 

Like Ruby, Python is a high-level, object-oriented scripting language. Unlike Ruby, though, Python is a general-purpose programming language that equips a programmer with the tools to tackle fields like machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI), data analytics, data visualization, finTech, cloud storage, gaming, and so much more. While Ruby is more renowned for it's english-like syntax and overall elegance, Python is no slacker when it comes to readability and ease-of-use. It's so easy to use that the learning curve for Python is pretty minimal&mdash;so much so that many universities have switched out beloved Java for Python as the first language taught to students. 

Python is easy and _intuitive_ to use, allowing for faster development. Also, a big tenet of Python is that code should be explicit. Ruby leverages a lot of behind-the-scenes magic that lends flexibility and creativity to Rubyists, whereas Pythonistas typically believe there is **one** _explicit_ and most efficient solution. The expliciteness of Python also promotes easier debugging and understanding of code since everything that is happening is explicity coded in your file. 

In addition, the Python community is robust and buzzing. It's popularity has increased steadily. As a consequence, Python has a vast library of pre-built code that you can use in your own code, called packages, making Python hugely extensible. (Yes, Ruby also has pre-built code available to programmers called gems, but the library of gems isn't nearly as vast as Python packages.)

With this introductory knowledge, let's get into some basics of actually writing Python and how it compares to Ruby. 

